docs: azure sso guide (#3431)
Unleash/unleash: website/docs/how-to/how-to-add-sso-azure-saml.md

---
title: How to add SSO with SAML 2.0 Azure
---

> :::note Availability

Author: makes sense, took a copy from https://github.com/Unleash/unleash/blob/main/website/docs/how-to/how-to-add-sso-saml.md and left some bits in there that I didn't fully understand

![Azure: Azure Details for Unleash](/img/sso-azure-saml-azure-details.png)
![Azure: Azure X509 for Unleash](/img/sso-azure-saml-x509cert.png)

### Step 4: Configure SAML 2.0 provider in Unleash {#step-4}

Go back to Unleash Admin Dashboard and navigate to `Admin Menu -> Single-Sign-On -> SAML`. Fill in the values captured in the _"Get the Azure AD Setup Details"_ step.
This is how the Azure details map to Unleash
- Azure AD Identifier > Entity ID (should be formatted as https://sts.windows.net/**{GUID}**)
- Login URL > Single Sign-On URL (should be formatted as https://login.microsoftonline.com/**{GUID}**/saml2)
- Azure Federation Metadata XML (copy the X509Certificate) > X.509 Certificate

You may also choose to “Auto-create users”. This will make Unleash automatically create new users on the fly the first time they sign-in to Unleash with the given SSO provider (JIT). If you decide to automatically create users in Unleash you must also provide a list of valid email domains separated by commas. You must also decide which global Unleash role they will be assigned (Editor role will be the default).

![Unleash: SAML 2.0](/img/sso-azure-saml-unleash-config.png)

> ### Step 5: Validate {#step-5}
> 
> You have now successfully configured Unleash to use SAML 2.0 together with Azure AD as an IdP. Please note that you also must assign users to the application defined in Azure AD to actually be able to log-in to Unleash.
> 
> Try signing out of Unleash. If everything is configured correctly you should be presented with the option to sign in with SAML 2.0.
> 
> Additionally, Azure gives the option to test logging in with a user at the bottom of the Azure AD SAML setup page. 
> 
> ![Azure: Test User](/img/sso-azure-saml-test-user.png)

Reviewer: This isn't really a step, so let's remove that bit of the heading.

Also, the thing about assigning users in Azure seems like a pretty major point. Maybe that should be it's own step? 

```suggestion
### Step 4: Add users {#step-4}

You must **assign users to the application you defined in Azure AD** for them to be able to log in.

[... maybe add some steps here?]

### Validation

If everything is set up correctly, you should now be able to sign in with the SAML 2.0 option. You can verify that this works by logging out of Unleash: the login screen should give you the option to sign in with SAML 2.0.

You can also test the integration in Azure by using the "test single sign on" step in the SAML setup wizard. 

<Figure caption="The SAML setup wizard contains a step that lets you test your SAML 2.0 integration. You can use this to verify that everything is configured correctly within Azure." img="/img/sso-azure-saml-test-user.png"/>
```

Author: @thomasheartman I've made lots of updates to this, let me know what you think!

---
title: How to add SSO with SAML 2.0 Azure
---

:::info Availability

The **Single-Sign-On capability** is only available for customers on the Enterprise subscription. Check out the [Unleash plans](https://www.getunleash.io/plans) for details.

:::

## Introduction {#introduction}

This guides shows you how to use [Unleash's Single-Sign-On (SSO) integration](../reference/sso.md) with SAML 2.0 and how to connect it to Azure Active Directory as an ID provider (IdP).

## Basic configuration

### Prequisites

This guide expects you to already have:

- Administrator access to the Unleash instance you want to configure
- Azure AD access for your Azure instance 

### Step 1: Create an Enterprise Application within Azure AD {#step-1}

**a) Sign in to your Azure AD and **create a new Enterprise Application**. 

> ![In the Azure directory overview, use the add button and select the enterprise application option.](/img/sso-azure-saml-add-enterprise-app.png)

Reviewer: This is good, but I think the alt text here is useful for everyone. Maybe use a figure with a caption? 

```suggestion
<Figure caption="In the Azure directory overview, use the add button and select the enterprise application option." img="/img/sso-azure-saml-add-enterprise-app.png"/>
```

When configuring SSO with SAML, you'll need to add an **identifier** and a **reply URL**.
The **identifier** is your Unleash URL. (For hosted instances, that's usually `https://<region>.app.unleash-hosted.com/<instanceName>`).

The **reply URL** is the Unleash callback URL. The Unleash callback URL is available on the Unleash SSO configuration page, and is typically your Unleash URL followed by `/auth/saml/callback`.

![Azure: The basic SAML configuration form with example values filled out for the required fields.](/img/sso-azure-saml-section-one.png)

**c) Section 2: Attributes & Claims {#attributes-and-claims}**

1. Set the "name identifier format" to "Email address".
2. Select "attribute" as the source.
3. Enter "user.mail" in the source attribute field.

Optionally, you can also provide a first name and a last name. If provided, these will be used to enrich the data in Unleash.

![Azure: The manage claim form with email configuration filled out](/img/sso-azure-saml-unique-id-email-id.png)
![Azure: The list of claims used by the SAML setup, including the optional claims for given name and surname](/img/sso-azure-saml-attributes-claim.png)

> > Please make sure to replace URLs with the public URL for your Unleash instance. This will require correct region prefix and the instance name. 
> >
> > The correct format is: https://**[region]**.app.unleash-hosted.com/**[instanceName]**/auth/saml/callback

Reviewer: This should probably be an admonition instead, I think. And what URLs are we asking them to replace?

```suggestion
:::info URLs and formats

Make sure to replace URLs with the public URL for your Unleash instance. This will require correct region prefix and the instance name. 

The correct format is: https://**[region]**.app.unleash-hosted.com/**[instanceName]**/auth/saml/callback

:::
```

**d) Sections 3 and 4: Azure AD setup details {#azure-details}**

You will need some details from section 3 and 4 of the SAML setup form to configure the integration within Unleash. These details are:
- Azure AD Identifier (from section 4)
- Login URL (from section 4)
- X.509 Certificate (in the Federation Metadata XML from section 3)

![Azure: Section 3 contains a download link for the Federation Metadata XML file. Section 4 lists the Azure AD identifier and the login URL](/img/sso-azure-saml-azure-details.png)

> ![Azure: Within the Federation Metadata XML file, find the `X509Certificate` tag. You'll need the content within that tag.](/img/sso-azure-saml-x509cert.png)

Reviewer: These both feel like they should be figures instead of images. I think the alt text would be a useful caption for anyone. what do you think?

---
title: How to add SSO with SAML 2.0 Azure
---

:::info Availability

The **Single-Sign-On capability** is only available for customers on the Enterprise subscription. Check out the [Unleash plans](https://www.getunleash.io/plans) for details.

:::

## Introduction {#introduction}

This guides shows you how to use [Unleash's Single-Sign-On (SSO) integration](../reference/sso.md) with SAML 2.0 and how to connect it to Azure Active Directory as an ID provider (IdP).

## Basic configuration

### Prequisites

This guide expects you to already have:

- Administrator access to the Unleash instance you want to configure
- Azure AD access for your Azure instance

### Step 1: Create an Enterprise Application within Azure AD {#step-1}

> **a) Sign in to your Azure AD and **create a new Enterprise Application**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**a) Sign in to your Azure AD and create a new Enterprise Application**.
```
